This is an interview with George Allen Bikima by
Stephanie Lawson on Saturday, April 28, 1991 at a
friend's home concerning the counterculture of
the 1960s. In the interest of accumulating
knowledge, I am asking you to donate this tape to me
or to the Texas A&M Oral History Collection in the
University Archives. Is that alright with you?
Yes.
Okay, what is the date and place of your birth?
Dublin, Texas, 1950, October 1st. Okay. Where did
you receive your high school education and your
college education? High school education was
Waltrip High School in Houston and Stephen F.
Austin in Nacogdoches. Okay. Where are you
currently living and what is your current
occupation? I'm living in Houston and my current
occupation is sales. Okay. When and where did you
get involved in the hippie movement? Probably my
senior year in high school, 69. 68, 69. Okay, and
that was in Houston? That was in Houston. Okay. Why
did you join the counterculture? Well, like
everything else now, you had to join or be left out.
You know, peer pressure, you know. Okay. Well, how
did your lifestyle change as you became a hippie?
Like, in your dress, in your music, hairstyles,
food? Well, everybody grew long hair. Everybody
changed their way of dress. The attitude was do
your own thing in your own time, in your own space,
in your own way. Did
you dress any certain way? I just tried to be,
I guess, look rebellious, you know, like before
generation. You remember that? We've studied
that. Did music have a big effect on you? Oh yeah.
Jimi Hendrix, The Stones, Janis Joplin. A lot of
those people are not with us today because of, I
guess, drugs and all that. Is that what you listen
to? Oh yeah.
What was your overall attitude during this time?
Did you have any slogans or sayings that were your
trademark? I didn't have any slogans. Freedom and
peace was just the cry of the youth movement at that
time.
Okay. Did you ever protest or march against the
Vietnam War or anything else? Yeah, we did that in
our first semester at Stephen F. Austin in
Nacogdoches. We had a walkout planned and all the
students on a certain day walked out of class and
didn't return back to class for the full day. That
blew them away. Why did you do this? Well, we felt
that at that time Everything was so conservative
and then all of a sudden our government as a whole
went into a war that really wasn't ever declared a
war and was killing people in our age group and it
was just an overall bad move
that the kids of our time just could not
understand.
How do you think that living in the South, does it be
different from living in other places like
California or up north or something like that?
Living in the South, how is it different for you
than you think like living in California, going to
Berkeley, something like that? I think it was
different in the South because I think things
started
eastward, and then all the affluent people up in
the north, they got more newsprint than the people
in the south.
Did you ever join a commune or experience any type
of communal living? Yes, I did. I rebelled against
my parents and left and lived in Mexico for three to
four months. and came back and then moved to New
Orleans and stayed there for about three months
and lived with several groups of people in the same
dwelling. Okay. Why did you do this? Just being
rebellious, trying to
let the establishment Everybody else, school,
government, we were going to do our own thing in our
own time. To be a hippie, did you have to do drugs?
And if you did or didn't, why? Well, I don't think
you had to do drugs. I think it was pretty
widespread back then. The most common drug back
then was just marijuana.
And, you know, just everybody did it. Did drugs
have any particular impact on you? No, not really,
because it was just recreational. It wasn't
anything that the people I ran around with
The group that I
ran around with did not get into that, but we knew a
lot of people that did and really got messed up,
really went to the extreme.
Did any of your friends ever overdose or anything
like that that would really impact you? Yeah, I
lost my best friend. He overdosed. He went out with
a different crowd than what we ran around with and
shot some heroin that we found out later, his
parents found out later, that was almost pure. And
it just killed him. Did you ever read or know of any
underground newspapers and which ones were they?
I can't remember the name of it, but there was
always a paper circulating telling about the
movement of the youth back in that time. What
organizations
or sit-outs or gatherings or things that were
going on that people needed to attend. You know,
they were trying to get everybody in numbers to
really show the establishment back then that
there was really something going on. What was the
impact of women's liberation on you? Did you feel
that at all? I never did really feel that.
I guess it was, you know, we could see it coming. You
know, more women were getting involved in the
protests, especially on campus. They were making
just as much noise as the males of that time and it
was just at that particular time it wasn't
something that was really noticed because
everybody was trying to group together,
everybody was trying to unite and it was just
thought of as pulling together as one. Did you know
any women that after the movement got started
tried to go off on their own and have a women's
movement type thing? Not really. I was never, you
know, knew anybody like that. I'm sure that
happened. You know, examples like Patty Hearst
and that situation. You know, that's all I can
really think of at this time. Okay and what
impacted like sexual liberation or the sexual
freedom that was going on have on you or did you see
any of that? Oh yeah that you know that went on it was
you know when I went to high school it was
completely different than after my first year of
college when when all this was taking place it was
you know there's a lot of communal living back then
and you know you just You know, you had sex and
relationships with several different women, but
that just didn't happen back in your high school
days.
Okay. What did you think about Charles Manson? Did
that affect you in any way? Well, you know,
everybody heard about it. It just seemed like one
of those things that happened in California where
somebody went to the extreme, took a situation to
the extreme. And just, you know, it hurt. I think on
the overall, it hurt the movement because this guy
had taken, you know, and his group had taken
something that we thought had some substance to it
and then just wiped the newspapers with blood with
it. So he did more harm for it than anything? Yeah, I
think so. I don't think anybody condoned what
happened, you know, with that situation. I don't
think anybody approved of it. It was something
that just happened and, you know, the hippie
movement or the freedom movement got blamed for
it, and I don't think that was really the case. I
think something like that could happen today
easily, which it probably does. It just wasn't
blown out of proportion like it was then. I mean,
not that it was any slight thing, but... Well, what
is the craziest or most rebellious thing that you
ever did that you can tell me? It was like, tell
about your hippie days. We got into a, we blew up a
telephone booth. That was pretty rebellious. For
some reason we thought that was making an impact in
our particular area for, you know, just one night
we decided, well, we need to do something to let
everybody know that there's something going on.
And so that's what we did. Okay, what did your
family think about this? It stood them on their
heads. They couldn't figure it out because my
sister was two years older than myself and they
never experienced any of that with her. And my
brother was several years younger, well five
years younger than myself and they didn't
experience anything like that with him. It was
just that late 60s movement there that got caught
up and the late 60s and early 70s with the war and all
that and that's what happened. Well do you think
that your rebellion was more toward the
establishment or was it toward your parents or was
it just a mixture of all authority? Well it was the
establishment was everything involved. Your
parents, your professors at school, anybody that
tried to tell you what to do, how to do it, when to do
it, they were the establishment. You were trying
to prove your case to them that you weren't going to
do what was expected of you at that particular time
like everybody else before you. That times were
changing.
start rebelling. Okay, is there any particular
reason that you got out of the counterculture or
why it ended? Well, it just lost momentum and then
you started figuring out that you had to do
something with your life. You couldn't continue
doing what you were doing and you had to make
something out of your life. You couldn't make a
lifelong career out of, you know, a mood at that
time. And you just, everybody just went their
separate ways and settled back down and finished
school and got into different professions and
started getting married and having families and,
you know, it just slowed his pace. Okay. How did
being a hippie in the 60s influence the rest of your
life? What do you think left the biggest mark on
you?
I think the biggest mark it left on me
was to be more open-minded towards people's
opinions or feelings or expectations and don't
have such a closed-door attitude. be
open-minded, keep your opinions to yourself, let
everybody else express their opinions, and try to
reach a happy medium between the parties. See,
back then it was, nobody wanted to listen to the
movement back then. They just thought, you know,
it was just something that was going to pass in a
short period of time, which it didn't. So that's
what happened, you know, with the Woodstock deal
and I think that was August 1969 that happened, and
the free love and the peace, and Richie Havens
getting on stage, opening up with Freedom. Did you
go? No, I wish I'd have gone. I had an opportunity to
go, and we decided it would be too much of a hassle to
get up there, because back then, it's not like
today. We didn't have our own cars, and the people
that had their own cars, we just couldn't swing it.
But I'd love to have gone. All the big people back
then, Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, Richie Havens,
all the big movement people and entertainers were
there.
Do you regret being a part of the hippie movement?
No, not at all. I think it's made the people that
made it through a lot stronger.
It's hard to explain. It's something that I'm glad
that I made it through and didn't go to the extreme
overdose on drugs or do crazy things, blow myself
up or any of that stuff. I think it's just the people
that are running this country right now probably
went through the same movement. probably opened
up their minds and hearts a little bit for other
people's feelings. What impact do you think the
60s made on America today?
I think the impact that the 60s made, this happened
for today, is I
think back then we were trying to reach a happy
medium. And it never did take place. And now I think
it's overcorrected itself. The kids today have
more freedom, more things to do, more money, more
time to do it. Parents seem not to be so strict on
their kids. They have more opportunities to do
things. And I think that's what the 60s did for the
kids of today. They have a better opportunity, a
better chance. They live better. They have more
money. They have more time to do it. I hope that's
not off base when somebody hears this. No, that's
good. Is there anything that you would like to add
to this that would enrich other people about the
60s that would maybe help them understand it
better?
I think the bottom line of the 60s was... after all
these years after World War II and Korea and all and
it was very conservative type atmosphere and then
it came to just a boiling point that things had to
change and what happened in the 60s late 60s early
70s it went to the through the it just went 180 to the
other extreme And now today I think it's somewhere
in between. I'm not sure we're right where we need
to be, but it's better. Do you think Vietnam played
a big impact on the movement to get it going that
fast? Oh sure, because all the people that I knew at
that time and all the movements that I attended and
all that, we just couldn't understand why a
conservative type atmosphere with all the
establishment and the government All of a sudden,
they made decisions to put people in our age group
on a front line in a war that they didn't really want
to win. You know, it was costing our generation
lives, not their generation. They were making the
decisions, and it was just not a conservative type
attitude by the government to go into that war. And
I think that's why we really started rebelling.
Thank you very much. Oh, you're welcome.